{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1038
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green121\blue165;\red0\green90\blue124;}
\margl1440\margr1440\margb1800\margt1800
\deftab708
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab708\sa320\qc\pardirnatural

\f0\b\fs56 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\up0 \nosupersub \ulnone \outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Naaya\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab708\sa180\pardirnatural

\b0\fs24 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\strokec0 This document describes the Naaya CMS from the point of view of the programmer.\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab708\sa180\pardirnatural

\b\fs36 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\strokec2 CMS functions\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab708\sa120\pardirnatural

\fs28 \cf3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\strokec3 Pluggable content types\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab708\sa180\pardirnatural

\b0\fs24 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\strokec0 Content in Naaya is stored as objects of various content types, such as documents, folders, events, links and files. Each content type can store different kinds of information. Additional content types can be created and plugged into the core CMS.\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab708\sa60\pardirnatural

\b \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Folder\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab708\sa180\pardirnatural

\b0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Folders work like folders on a filesystem \'96\'a0they serve to organize objects into hierarchies. They can also have a rich-text description that is displayed along with the contents of the folder.\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab708\sa60\pardirnatural

\b \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Document, News, Story\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab708\sa180\pardirnatural

\b0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
These content types model a typical static HTML page, complete with embedded images. 
\i \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
News
\i0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
 and 
\i \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Story
\i0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
 objects have an associated publishing date. An RSS feed is created for news items and stories in a site.\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab708\sa60\pardirnatural

\b \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Event, Contact\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab708\sa180\pardirnatural

\b0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
An 
\i \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Event
\i0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
 object describes a real-world event and contains fields for start/end date, location, contact person, etc. In addition, events can be displayed on a calendar or syndicated as an RSS feed.\
Objects of the 
\i \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Contact
\i0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
 type map to people and organizations, with fields such as telephone number and E-mail address.\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab708\sa60\pardirnatural

\b \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
File, ExFile, MediaFile\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab708\sa180\pardirnatural

\b0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
The 
\i \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
File
\i0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
 content types serve as containers for uploaded files. For the most part Naaya treats these as opaque binary blobs with metadata (mime type, filename, upload date). There are a couple of exceptions: the contents of some file types can be indexed (provided that a parsing library is installed) and 
\i \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
MediaFile
\i0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
 objects are displayed as inline videos in the web page. The 
\i \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
ExFile
\i0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
 content type is an internationalized version of 
\i \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
File
\i0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
 \'96\'a0one file is expected to be uploaded for each language in the portal.\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab708\sa60\pardirnatural

\b \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
GeoPoint\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab708\sa180\pardirnatural

\b0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
GeoPoint objects contain lat/lon coordinates and they can be displayed on the portal map. Since all content types can now have geographical coordinates, use of this content type is discouraged.\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab708\sa60\pardirnatural

\b \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
URL, Pointer\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab708\sa180\pardirnatural

\b0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
The URL object wraps an HTTP URL. This is useful in certain content management contexts, for example when building a library of links to content hosted elsewhere: discrete URL obejcts can be approved and managed more readily than URLs within a 
\i \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Document
\i0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
 object. Pointers are similar to URLs but they point to objects within the same portal; they are useful when presenting the same content in different ways, to avoid duplicating content objects.\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab708\sa120\pardirnatural

\b\fs28 \cf3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\strokec3 Internationalization\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab708\sa180\pardirnatural

\b0\fs24 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\strokec0 Naaya portals and their content objects have i18n (internationalization) capabilities. A portal will have one or more languages enabled, objects can have some of their fields translated in those languages, and messages that appear in the static (non-content) parts of the portal\'92s web pages can be translated using a 
\i \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
gettext
\i0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
-style system.\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab708\sa120\pardirnatural

\b\fs28 \cf3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\strokec3 Portlets\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab708\sa180\pardirnatural

\b0\fs24 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\strokec0 Some content needs to be displayed on multiple pages, or generated on-the-fly. Portlets provide a flexible way to define and edit the content and choose where it will be displayed.\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab708\sa120\pardirnatural

\b\fs28 \cf3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\strokec3 Custom layout and forms\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab708\sa180\pardirnatural

\b0\fs24 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\strokec0 All HTML pages displayed by Naaya are rendered using Zope Page Templates. Many of the templates can be customized from the ZMI (Zope Management Interface) pages. Site layout (basic page templates and CSS files) is organized into skins with multiple color schemes; these can also be customized from ZMI, and an administrator can choose the current skin and color scheme for the portal.\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab708\sa120\pardirnatural

\b\fs28 \cf3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\strokec3 Authentication\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab708\sa180\pardirnatural

\b0\fs24 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\strokec0 Naaya uses the Zope user and security system with additional permissions and roles. Each Naaya site has a user registry and can link to an LDAP user database. Roles can be assigned to users at the portal level or folder level.\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab708\sa120\pardirnatural

\b\fs28 \cf3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\strokec3 RSS Feeds\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab708\sa180\pardirnatural

\b0\fs24 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\strokec0 Portals publish several feeds by default, for example latest news, latest uploads, and latest/upcoming events. It is also possible to fetch feeds from other sites and re-publish them or display them as portlets.\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab708\sa120\pardirnatural

\b\fs28 \cf3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\strokec3 E-mail notifications\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab708\sa180\pardirnatural

\b0\fs24 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\strokec0 A Naaya portal can send out E-mail messages to administrators and users. Administrators receive messages on object creation and site errors, and users can subscribe to periodic and instant notifications of new and modified content on the site.\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab708\sa120\pardirnatural

\b\fs28 \cf3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\strokec3 Geotagging and maps\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab708\sa180\pardirnatural

\b0\fs24 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\strokec0 All geotagged objects in a given portal are displayed on a map, rendered using the Googleo or Yahoo map API. The administrator can configure which content types can be geotagged, a tree of geographical categories, and the size and default viewpoint of the map.\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab708\sa120\pardirnatural

\b\fs28 \cf3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\strokec3 User comments\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab708\sa180\pardirnatural

\b0\fs24 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\strokec0 Each content object can have a list of blog-style comments attached to it. Users must be logged in to submit comments.\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab708\sa120\pardirnatural

\b\fs28 \cf3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\strokec3 Administration interface and ZMI\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab708\sa180\pardirnatural

\b0\fs24 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\strokec0 Naaya portals have an extensive administration area, with sections for managing the homepage, users, geo-map, feeds and portlets. Some Naaya extensions provide their own administration pages. Certain management options, for example choosing site languages, are not available in the administration area \'96 they are restricted to the ZMI (by default Naaya administrators don\'92t have access to the ZMI).\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab708\sa180\pardirnatural

\b\fs36 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\strokec2 Additional components\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab708\sa120\pardirnatural

\fs28 \cf3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\strokec3 Consultation\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab708\sa180\pardirnatural

\b0\fs24 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\strokec0 Several consultation packages exist, allowing a site owner to request feedback from users on an uploaded document.\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab708\sa120\pardirnatural

\b\fs28 \cf3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\strokec3 Survey\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab708\sa180\pardirnatural

\b0\fs24 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\strokec0 The 
\i \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
NaayaSurvey
\i0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
 product provides an interface to define surveys, with rich question types (single/multiple answer, free text entry, date entry, matrices) and graphical reports using Google Charts.\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab708\sa120\pardirnatural

\b\fs28 \cf3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\strokec3 Forum\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab708\sa180\pardirnatural

\i\b0\fs24 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\strokec0 NaayaForum
\i0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
 is a forum product, designed to be used as part of a Naaya portal. Messages in a thread are arranged in a tree instead of a flat list. User accounts are inherited from the enclosing portal.\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab708\sa120\pardirnatural

\b\fs28 \cf3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\strokec3 Photo gallery\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab708\sa180\pardirnatural

\i\b0\fs24 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\strokec0 NaayaPhotoArchive
\i0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
 is a product that adds a 
\i \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Photo
\i0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
 content type (similar to 
\i \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
MediaFile
\i0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
 in that the image is displayed in the site), and image containers \'96 
\i \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
PhotoGallery
\i0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
 and 
\i \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
PhotoFolder
\i0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
 \'96\'a0that display images in an album-like interface.\
The 
\i \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
GBIFMediaGallery
\i0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
 product extends NaayaPhotoArchive to handle image metadata.\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab708\sa120\pardirnatural

\b\fs28 \cf3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\strokec3 Customized sites\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab708\sa180\pardirnatural

\b0\fs24 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\strokec0 For heavily modified installations of Naaya sites, specialized packages have been created. They contain a custom Site object (derived from NySite) with additional methods, and a different set of default objects (skel data) for new site instances.\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab708\sa180\pardirnatural

\b\fs36 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\strokec2 Source code\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab708\sa120\pardirnatural

\fs28 \cf3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\strokec3 Module and class structure\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab708\sa180\pardirnatural

\b0\fs24 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\strokec0 Naaya code can be divided in several parts: base, utilities and content types.\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab708\sa60\pardirnatural

\b \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Base\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab708\sa180\pardirnatural

\b0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Contains the NySite class and most of the administration interface. Also contains the 
\i \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
skel
\i0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
 (initial content) for a new portal. The code is currently in the Products.Naaya, Products.NaayaBase and a bit of Products.NaayaContent packages.\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab708\sa60\pardirnatural

\b \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Utilities\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab708\sa180\pardirnatural

\b0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Several classes are instantiated at the top level of a NySite and named portal_* (portal_forms, portal_portlets, etc). These provide much of the user-visible functionality of a site, including authentication, page templates, visual layout, portlets, notifications, map and i18n. The code is currently in the Products.NaayaCore package.\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab708\sa60\pardirnatural

\b \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Content types\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab708\sa180\pardirnatural

\b0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Each content type is represented as a class. At startup time these are registered with code in 
\i \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Base
\i0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
. There is a simple API for third parties to create new 
\i \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Content Types
\i0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
. The code for each content type is in a package inside the Products.NaayaContent package.\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab708\sa120\pardirnatural

\b\fs28 \cf3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\strokec3 Automated testing\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab708\sa180\pardirnatural

\b0\fs24 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\strokec0 There is a test suite for Naaya built on top of the ZopeTestCase package.\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab708\sa60\pardirnatural

\b \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Unit tests\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab708\sa180\pardirnatural

\b0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Test classes derived from ZopeTestCase.TestCase will be run as unit tests. This means they must not rely on an existing instance of NySite and must instantiate all tested objects by itself. When running the full test suite, unit tests are run first.\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab708\sa60\pardirnatural

\b \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Portal tests\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab708\sa180\pardirnatural

\b0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
If a test class is derived from NaayaTestCase it will be run with a NySite, created in a temporary in-memory test database, available at 
\i \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
self.portal
\i0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
. The site is created once for a whole test run, so any changes must be undone after the test finishes in order to avoid breaking subsequent tests.\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab708\sa60\pardirnatural

\b \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Functional portal tests\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab708\sa180\pardirnatural

\b0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Test classes derived from NaayaFunctionalTestCase are simiar to 
\i \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Portal tests
\i0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
 and, in addition, they have access to a test web browser. The browser is an instance of Twill, with the 
\i \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
http://localhost/
\i0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
 URL namespace mapped to a Zope publisher for the testing database. Convenience methods are available for login and logout.\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab708\sa120\pardirnatural

\b\fs28 \cf3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\strokec3 Data storage\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab708\sa180\pardirnatural

\b0\fs24 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\strokec0 Naaya stores most of its data in the ZODB, thereby taking advantage of existing support for transactions, undo, replication, backup and export/import. It is however impractical to store large binary objects in a ZODB database, so the contents of uploaded files (
\i \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
File
\i0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
, 
\i \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
ExFile
\i0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
 and 
\i \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
MediaFile
\i0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
 content types) is stored on disk using the third-party 
\i \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
ExtFile
\i0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
 product.\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab708\sa120\pardirnatural

\b\fs28 \cf3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\strokec3 Installation\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab708\sa180\pardirnatural

\b0\fs24 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\strokec0 Traditionally Naaya was distributed as a Zope2 product, to be instaled in the Products folder of a Zope instance. It\'92s currently possible to automate a deployment using 
\i \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
buildout
\i0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
, and work is underway to repackage all of the Naaya core as a Python egg.}